NuxtJS Migration guides to Astro (#2309)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/migrate-to-astro/from-nuxtjs.mdx

## Key Differences between Nuxt and Astro

When you rebuild your Nuxt site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- [MPA vs SPA](/en/concepts/mpa-vs-spa/): Nuxt is a Vue-based SPA (single-page application). Astro sites are multi-page apps built using `.astro` components, but can also support React, Preact, Vue.js, Svelte, SolidJS, AlpineJS, Lit and raw HTML templating.

- [Page Routing](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#file-based-routing): Nuxt uses `vue-router` for SPA routing, and `vue-meta` for managing `<head>`. In Astro, you will create separate HTML page routes and control your page `<head>` directly, or in a layout component.

- [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed primarily for content-focused sites. While Nuxt has the capability to do content-focused sites through `@nuxt/content`, it's primarily geared towards interactive websites. This differs from Astro, which has built-in capabilities for content page generation, but may be difficult to replicate interactive components such as dashboards within.

> ## Convert your NuxtJS Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Convert your NuxtJS Project

Each project migration will look different. But, there are some common steps you will probably need to get your new Astro site up and running.

Even after following these instructions, you probably won't have your new Astro site exactly the way you want it yet. But, this page will get you started in the right direction.
```

title: Migrating from NuxtJS
description: Tips for migrating an existing NuxtJS project to Astro
layout: ~/layouts/MigrationLayout.astro
stub: false
framework: NuxtJS
---
import AstroVueTabs from '~/components/tabs/AstroVueTabs.astro'
import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

[NuxtJS](https://nuxtjs.org) is a framework for building web applications on top of Vue.

> After following the guidance on this page, you probably won't have your new Astro site exactly the way you want it yet.
> 
> But, this guide gives you some key concepts and migration strategies to help you get started. Use the rest of our docs and our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) to keep going!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some key concepts and migration strategies to help you get started. Use the rest of our docs and our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) to keep going!
```

## Key Differences between Nuxt and Astro

When you rebuild your Nuxt site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- [MPA vs SPA](/en/concepts/mpa-vs-spa/): Nuxt is a Vue-based SPA (single-page application). Astro sites are multi-page apps built using `.astro` components, but can also support React, Preact, Vue.js, Svelte, SolidJS, AlpineJS, Lit and raw HTML templating.

- [Page Routing](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#file-based-routing): Nuxt uses `vue-router` for SPA routing, and `vue-meta` for managing `<head>`. In Astro, you will create separate HTML page routes and control your page `<head>` directly, or in a layout component.

- [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed primarily for content-focused sites. While Nuxt has the capability to do content-focused sites through `@nuxt/content`, it's primarily geared towards interactive websites. This differs from Astro, which has built-in capabilities for content page generation, but may be difficult to replicate interactive components such as dashboards within.

## Convert your NuxtJS Project

> Each project migration will look different. But, there are some common steps you will probably need to get your new Astro site up and running.

Reviewer 2: This guide uses Nuxt 2 code samples, so we should make that clear before diving in.

- **@astrojs/image**: to replace Nuxt's Image plugin with Astro's own image-optimizing components.

- **@astrojs/mdx**: to bring existing MDX files from your Nuxt project, or to use MDX in your new Astro site.

### Put your source code in `src`

1. **Move** Nuxt's `static/` folder to `public/`. 
   
    Astro uses the `public/` directory for static assets, similar to Nuxt's `static/` folder.

2. **Copy or Move** Nuxt's other files and folders (e.g. `pages`, `layouts` etc.) into Astro's `src/` folder.

    Like Nuxt, Astro's `src/pages/` folder is a special folder used for file-based routing. All other folders are optional, and you can organize the contents of your `src/` folder any way you like. Other common folders in Astro projects include `src/layouts/`, `src/components`, `src/styles`, `src/scripts`.

### Repurpose config file

Astro has a configuration file at the root of your project called [`astro.config.mjs`](/en/guides/configuring-astro/). This is used only for configuring your Astro project and any installed integrations, including [SSR adapters](/en/guides/deploy/).

> ### Convert Vue SFC files to `.astro` files

Reviewer 2: Maybe we change the title of this section to 
```suggestion
### Convert Vue SFC pages to `.astro` files
```
You might not want to follow these steps if your SFC file is for an interactive component - easiest to leave that as .vue.

Each Astro page explicitly requires `<html>`, `<head>`, and `<body>` tags to be present, so it is common to reuse a layout file across pages. Your Nuxt `layout.vue` and templates will not include these.

Note the standard HTML templating, and direct access to `<head>`:  

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
    <title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- Wrap the slot element with your existing layout templating -->
    <slot />
  </body>
</html>
```

You may also wish to reuse code from [your Nuxt's page's `head` property](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-head/#the-head-property) to include additional site meta data. Notice that Astro uses neither `vue-meta` nor a component's `head` property creates `<head>` directly. You may import and use components, even within `<head>`, to separate and organize your page content.

### Migrating Pages and Posts

> In NuxtJS, your [pages](/en/core-concepts/pages/) live in `/pages`. In Astro, **all your page content must live within `src/`**.

Reviewer 2: This could confuse people into thinking that pages can be stored anywhere within `src`, when they can only be stored in `src/pages/` or `src/content`. (I made a similar comment on the Next / Gatsby guides but I'm not sure if we changed them)

- Astro is [component-based](/en/core-concepts/components/), and your markup structure will be similar before and after your migration.
- Astro has [an official integration for using Vue components](/en/guides/integrations-guide/vue/).
- Astro has support for [installing NPM packages](/en/guides/imports/#npm-packages), including Vue libraries. You may be able to keep some or all of your existing Vue components and dependencies.

## Key Differences between Nuxt and Astro

When you rebuild your Nuxt site in Astro, you will notice some important differences:

- [MPA vs SPA](/en/concepts/mpa-vs-spa/): Nuxt is a Vue-based SPA (single-page application). Astro sites are multi-page apps built using `.astro` components, but can also support React, Preact, Vue.js, Svelte, SolidJS, AlpineJS, Lit and raw HTML templating.

- [Page Routing](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#file-based-routing): Nuxt uses `vue-router` for SPA routing, and `vue-meta` for managing `<head>`. In Astro, you will create separate HTML page routes and control your page `<head>` directly, or in a layout component.

> - [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed primarily for content-focused sites. While Nuxt has the capability to do content-focused sites through `@nuxt/content`, it's primarily geared towards interactive websites. This differs from Astro, which has built-in capabilities for content page generation, but may be difficult to replicate interactive components such as dashboards within.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we're being too conservative about Astro's capabilities with the "interactive components" wording - Astro works great with interactive components, but it's shared state on the client (across multiple islands and across pages) that makes things more difficult.

```suggestion
- [Content-focus](/en/concepts/why-astro/): Astro was designed to excel at making content-focused sites. While Nuxt has the capability to do content-focused sites through `@nuxt/content`, an existing Nuxt app may be built for high client-side interactivity. Astro has built-in capabilities for working with your content, such as page generation, but it may be difficult to replicate items with complex shared state, such as dashboards.
```

    ```
    </Fragment>
    <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```shell
    # launch the Astro CLI Wizard 
    yarn create astro@latest

    # start from any existing repo
    yarn create astro --template <github-username>/<github-repo>
    ```
    </Fragment>
  </PackageManagerTabs>

Then, copy your existing Nuxt project files over to your new Astro project in a separate folder outside of `src`.

:::tip
Prefer to explore in your browser instead? Visit https://astro.new for a variety of starter templates that can be opened and edited in StackBlitz, CodeSandbox or Gitpod.
:::

### Install integrations (optional)

You may find it useful to install some of [Astro's optional integrations](/en/guides/integrations-guide/) to use while converting your Nuxt project to Astro:

- **@astrojs/vue**: to reuse some existing Vue UI components in your new Astro site, or keep writing with Vue components.

- **@astrojs/image**: to replace Nuxt's Image plugin with Astro's own image-optimizing components.

- **@astrojs/mdx**: to bring existing MDX files from your Nuxt project, or to use MDX in your new Astro site.

### Put your source code in `src`

> 1. **Move** Nuxt's `static/` folder to `public/`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Move** Nuxt's `static/` folder into `public/`. 
```

> 1. **Move** Nuxt's `static/` folder to `public/`. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Move** the contents of Nuxt's `static/` folder into `public/`.
```

   
    Astro uses the `public/` directory for static assets, similar to Nuxt's `static/` folder.

2. **Copy or Move** Nuxt's other files and folders (e.g. `pages`, `layouts` etc.) into Astro's `src/` folder.

    Like Nuxt, Astro's `src/pages/` folder is a special folder used for file-based routing. All other folders are optional, and you can organize the contents of your `src/` folder any way you like. Other common folders in Astro projects include `src/layouts/`, `src/components`, `src/styles`, `src/scripts`.

> ### Repurpose config file

Author: Makes sense - let's scrap it.

Astro has a configuration file at the root of your project called [`astro.config.mjs`](/en/guides/configuring-astro/). This is used only for configuring your Astro project and any installed integrations, including [SSR adapters](/en/guides/deploy/).

### Convert Vue SFC files to `.astro` files

Here are some tips for converting a Nuxt `.vue` component into a `.astro` component:

1. Use the `<template>` of the existing NuxtJS component function as the basis for your HTML template.

2. Change any [Nuxt or Vue syntax to Astro](#convert-nuxtjs-syntax-to-astro) or to HTML web standards. This includes `<NextLink>`, `:class`, `{{variable}}`, and `v-if`, for example.

> 1. Move `<script>` JavaScript, into a "code fence" (`---`).

Reviewer 2: The syntax in a Nuxt `<script>` section will be very Vue-like. Just like the Vue markup syntax had to be converted in step 2, the Vue `<script>` component syntax [(a big object with lots of options)](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/directory-structure/pages/#properties) needs to be converted into something Astro understands. This is covered well at the end of the guided example at the end, but may be worth a mention here.

To @sarah11918's point, sometimes code in the `<script>` tag should be converted into a `<script>` tag in Astro - for example, if there's an `onMount()` hook in the Vue SFC, that should be a `<script>` tag in `.astro`. But this might need its own section - it's hard to describe without a code sample.

```suggestion
1. Move `<script>` JavaScript, into a "code fence" (`---`). Convert your component's data-fetching properties to server-side JavaScript - see [Nuxt data fetching to Astro](#nuxt-data-fetching-to-astro). 
```

> 1. Move `<script>` JavaScript, into a "code fence" (`---`).

Author: I generally think this suggestion fits the bill well enough. @sarah11918 and I discussed fairly in-depth that there should only be one primary code example in each guide to cut down on size, and I don't know how to easily expand our code sample for Nuxt 2 to reflect this.

> 4. Write an `Astro.props` statement to access any additional props that were previously passed to your Vue component.

Reviewer 2: Would it be
```suggestion
4. Use `Astro.props` to access any additional props that were previously passed to your Vue component.
```

4. Decide whether any imported components also need to be converted to Astro. With the official integration installed, you can [use existing Vue components in your Astro file](/en/guides/integrations-guide/react/). But, you may want to convert them to Astro, especially if they do not need to be interactive!

> See [an example from a Nuxt app converted step-by-step](#examples-from-nuxtjs).

Reviewer 2: The slug changed again:
```suggestion
See [an example from a Nuxt app converted step-by-step](#guided-examples-see-the-steps).
```

When part of a [content collection](/en/guides/content-collections/), Markdown and MDX files will live in folders within `src/content/` and you will [generate those pages dynamically](/en/guides/content-collections/#generating-pages-from-content-collections).

### Migrating Tests

As Astro outputs raw HTML, it is possible to write end-to-end tests using the output of the build step. Any end-to-end tests written previously might work out-of-the-box, if you have been able to match the markup of your Nuxt site. Testing libraries such as Jest and Vue Testing Library can be imported and used in Astro to test your Vue components.

See Astro's [testing guide](/en/guides/testing/) for more.

## Reference: Convert NuxtJS Syntax to Astro

> ### Nuxt Variable Interpolation to Astro
> 
> A Nuxt Vue component might have the following to display a variable within a paragraph tag:
> 
> ```vue title="components/Component.vue"
> <p>{{message}}</p>
> ```
> 
> To interpolate a variable in an Astro component, change the set of two curly braces to one set of curly braces:
> 
> ```astro title="src/components/Component.astro"
> <p>{message}</p>
> ```

Reviewer 2: I think adding the del/add syntax would make this especially clear:
```suggestion
### Nuxt Variable Interpolation to Astro

A Nuxt Vue component might have the following to display a variable within a paragraph tag:

```vue title="components/Component.vue"
<p>{{message}}</p>
```

To interpolate a variable in an Astro component, change the set of two curly braces to one set of curly braces:

```astro title="src/components/Component.astro" del={3} add={4}
<p>{message}</p>
```
```

> ```

Author: Love both of these suggestions. Adding via local git command

```astro del={1} ins={2}
<NuxtLink to="/blog">Blog</Link>
<a href="/blog">Blog</a>
```

Astro does not use any special component for links, although you are welcome to build custom link components. You can then import and use this `<Link>` just as you would any other component.

```astro title="src/components/Link.astro"
---
const { to } = Astro.props
---
<a href={to}><slot /></a>
```

### Nuxt Imports to Astro

If necessary, update any [file imports](/en/guides/imports/) to reference relative file paths exactly. This can be done using [import aliases](/en/guides/typescript/#import-aliases), or by writing out a relative path in full. 

Note that `.astro` and several other file types must be imported with their full file extension.

```astro title="src/pages/authors/Fred.astro" ".astro"
---
import Card from `../../components/Card.astro`;
---
<Card />
```

### Nuxt Dynamic Page Generation to Astro

In Nuxt, to generate a dynamic page you either must:

- Use SSR
- [Use the `generate` function in `nuxt.config.js` to define all possible static routes](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-generate/)

> In Astro, you must export a `getStaticPaths` function to tell the framework which routes it is expected to generate for a dynamic page.

Reviewer: Digging this, but makes no mention of SSR in Astro. So, I think we need to find a way to also include it.

Author: I was originally thinking something like:

```suggestion
In Astro, you must export a `getStaticPaths` function to tell the framework which routes it is expected to generate for a dynamic page. This not only helps static site generation but also allows Astro to speed up its own server-side rendering.
```

With a link to the SSR docs page, but I'm not sure of its technical accuracy. What do y'all think @sarah11918 @Jutanium ?

Astro simplifies this to simply fetch data inside of your page's code fence.

Migrate the following:

```vue title="pages/index.vue"
{
  // ...
  async asyncData() {
    const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151")
    const resJson = await res.json();
    const pokemons = resJson.results;
    return {
      pokemons,
    }
  },
}
```

To a code fence without a wrapper function:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
const res = await fetch("https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon?limit=151")
const resJson = await res.json();
const pokemons = resJson.results;
---

<!-- Your template here -->
```

### Nuxt Styling to Astro

Nuxt utilizes Vue's component styling to generate a page's style.

```vue title="pages/index.vue"
<template>
	<!-- Your template here -->
</template>

<script>
	// Your server logic here
</script>

<style scoped>
    .class {
        color: red;
    }
</style>
```

 Similarly, in Astro you can drop in a `<style>` element in your page's template to style the component:

```astro title="src/pages/index.vue"
---
// Your server logic here
---

<style>
    .class {
        color: red;
    }
</style>
```

> #### Global Styling

Author: I don't think adding that to this guide makes much sense. If we follow our previous "does this directly apply to this framework" I would lean "no" more than "yes" for layout styles. Most all `.vue` components use `<style>` for styling AFAIK, not dedicated CSS files.

```shell
npm install -D sass
```

After doing so, you're then able to use `.scss` or `.sass` styled without modification from your Vue components.

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<p>Hello, world</p>
<style lang="scss">
p {
   color: black;
   
   &:hover {
       color: red;
   }
}
</style>
```

See more about [Styling in Astro](/en/guides/styling/).

### Nuxt Image Plugin to Astro

Convert any [Nuxt `<nuxt-img/>` or `<nuxt-picture/>` components](https://image.nuxtjs.org/components/nuxt-img) with [Astro's own image integration components](/en/guides/images/#astros-image-integration), or with a standard HTML `<img>`. See a [full list of component attributes](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#usage) available for Astro's `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components, and note that several will differ from Nuxt's attributes. 

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { Image } from '@astrojs/image/components';
import localImage from "../images/brand/logo.png";
import rocket from '../images/rocket.svg';
---
<Image src={localImage} alt="The Astro Logo" />
<img src={rocket} alt="A rocketship in space.">
```

> In Vue (`.vue`) components, use standard JSX image syntax (`<img />`). Astro will not optimize these images, but you can install and use NPM packages for more flexibility.

Author: I found this wording a little confusing (too many `in`s back-to-back), so I rephrased it as:

```suggestion
In Vue (`.vue`) components within your Astro app, use standard JSX image syntax (`<img />`). Astro will not optimize these images, but you can install and use NPM packages for more flexibility.
```
